Well come in in this lesson we're going to be looking at the windows object and the browser object.
Now you can open up your console and to type in console.
And then window and this will return back the windows object.
And as you can see there's a lot of information contained in here and you can do this on any Web site.
Open up your Chrome browser and browse to any one of your favorite Web sites and do Konsole directory
and you can right away get a whole lot more information about that web page.
We've also got network which tells us more information about what's getting loaded.
So this is what's contained within the loader of the browser.
And basically this is what is used to communicate with the web servers and you can see more about what's
being loaded and what types of files are being loaded the size.
How much time it's taking to load them and so on.
So once all of the H Tim L page gets loaded it actually gets parsed into the browser and then it the
browser is the one that actually creates the DOM.
So this is the document object.
And this is a full map of all of the contents of your web page.
It's like a tree with all kinds of branches going down grabbing all the different nodes that are available
within your web page.
So there is one important thing to know when it comes to the browser object and they're not.
Not all browsers are the same.
So although there are some standard that they do try to do things similar they're not all going to be
standard and browsers can be different and they can handle some of the dorm information differently.
So this is important to keep in mind when you're building applications that not all of your dorm interactions
were window interactions are going to be treated the same way across different browsers.
So let's take a quick look at what's available to us and basically through the windows object through
the browser object and through the document object.
This is where we get information that we can utilize within our Javascript.
So this is our window into what's happening within the web page and gives us the ability via javascript
to communicate with the content on the web page.
So there are a few that I wanted to look at and some of them.
One of the ones that we want to look at is history so you can actually see the history that's contained
within your web page and you can find out more information and you can also go forward and backwards
in history.
There's also there's also events that are available within the window so you can see that just ties
within the elements.
There's events within the window as well so we can use ones where we've got on unload.
We can also use on load and so on.
So on unload means basically whenever the user is leaving the web page if you capture them here then
you can make use of that before they're actually closing off the web page.
And we've already looked out ones like the alert.
So those are ones that we've already looked at and we are going to be looking at the interval in upcoming
lessons as well.
So let's open up our editor and open up our local web page and let's write our first script here to
get some information that's actually contained within the web page.
So we saw earlier how we can do console directory and we can actually list out the entire Windows object
just by typing in console directory window.
So that gave us the ability to type in the window object so we can also do the same thing if we want
to loop through that Windows object.
So this is an object just like anything else within javascript where if we want to loop through all
the different properties we can loop through it within this type of format where we do proper properties
in window
and then now let's just let's just write them out into the document.
So document right.
And again this is typing into the dorm and we're going to let listo to that property.
And let's put a space in there.
And then now let's also listo out that window object.
So we've got window property object so that we can take a closer look at what's actually going to be
produced here and next.
Let's do a line break.
So go ahead.
We'll save that and we're going to go refresh our page and we can see that we can output all of this
information.
So we've got a lot of really useful information here.
We can see how wide our window is how high or window is.
So these are variables that we can make use of within our javascript as well.
So let me show you how I can grab those.
So if we want to grab that inner with an inner height and it put them into our age Mel.
So let's say let's grab wrapper.
So this is what we've done before so just put output there and we'll do document.
So this is grabbing into the document object.
Get element by on a D and this time we're going to grab a wrapper so that we can actually write into
this particular object.
And now let's put some content in here.
So let's do I would put an age to a male and we're going to grab that enraged him.
So what I want you to do now is pause the video and write up.
Finish this off.
Writing out the inner with inner height of your screen and output it within that wrapper ID.
So once you've done that I'm going to show you some other really neat methods that are available within
a short window object.
So the solution to this all we have to do is grab it via window and we can do inner height
so inner height.
And let's also do that other one there so that's out in the window.
And in her with
so save that and go back out and refresh your page so right now at the top we should be able to see
our window with window height and if we actually change that and refresh the page again.
So this value will change because we've actually changed how wide our our window is.
So depending on how wide you've opened up your window you're going to have different values in there.
There's some other information as well that we can make use of.
And there's location so we know where the location is.
So where the current browser window is and we can actually change that and load a separate u r l as
well.
So we can update the location.
I can save this as index too.
And then what we're going to do is we're going to open that up as index to one more where we're going
to actually output our window location.
So let's output to our HGA model and output the window location.
So we know actually which page we're located on so window location and save that.
And I actually want to show you a few more so just as we saw before where we could type an alert and
we can have that alert show up.
We can do even more where we can do besides just having an alert show up.
So let me show you what happens when we refreshed the page and we know that this is not pop up message
with the alert.
And here I've got my window you are you are l.
I've got the inner height and width of my current window.
We can also open new windows so we can do window open.
And then here we can put in you or else so because this is going to be the one that we just created
or I can just open up the same one let's do window open so see what happens now and I'm going to comment
at the alerts.
We don't always get that alert.
So you can open it up on the larger window here and I've got my pop ups blocked.
So I'm just going to allow that pop up.
Now this time when I load it we're actually opening up that window because we entered in that command.
So this is opening up another window via javascript.
And this is how we can do that where we can load the one window and we can see that it also loads up
the second window and changes the focus to that second window.
So we saw how we can add a window open to open up the window.
We can also attach a variable to it so that this will actually sit within an object.
Now and now we can actually link to that object.
So before someone's so we can do a before unload.
And remember this is sitting in another file.
And from this file.
So from index start to melt we've opened up a second window to index to h to Mel.
And now we're going to fire off a function before that second window unloads.
So we're going to fire off an alert and it's going to say don't go anywhere save it and go back out
to the page.
So we see that right now it's opening up that second page.
And when I try to shut that one down so what it's doing is when I'm trying to leave this window it's
actually telling me Don't go anywhere.
So before I'm actually shifting over to this one here it's actually asking me to not leave before I'm
actually running.
And you've got quite a bit of control within the Windows object
and yes there's a lot of information contained within here.
But remember again that you don't have to memorize everything that's contained within the Windows object.
You just have to be aware that you do have this control and you do have access to all of this information
and methods that you can call upon and make use of within your javascript.
So try it out for yourself.
Open up your browser window and try that out for yourself.
Right so the file location and in the next lesson we're going to look at what we can do with the history
and how we can actually move between pages using javascript.